In the last lecture we have implemented the view to display older blog posts that are tagged with a
particular tag.
Now we have encountered a problem that we cannot display the most commented most active and most active
users last month simply because we'll have to calculate this data somehow fetch it from the database
or cache or basically just copy this code which we have inside the post controller to the post stat
controller so we can pass it.
So we have no place to fetch this data from.
And this is our problem and we've also talked that when you would like to add this sidebar to the blog
post view this would also possibly require us to fetch this code again even though we already have our
show action that is actually quite too long.
Now fortunately Lara VO is not to make our life harder it is to make our life easier.
So it already has a solution for a problem like this.
So our problem is let's describe it.
We want to make some data available to particular views.
In this case we would like to make some data available all the ways for The Post's index view and posts
show view.
So instead of calculating reading or fetching this data in all the controller actions and then passing
it explicitly to the view we can use a component called view composers and this would do just that.
It will make some data available under particular names to all of our views that we specify.
So what we need is we need this.
Most Commented most active and most active last month variables field with data on particular views
so we won't have to pass this data explicitly inside controllers.
So the view composers composer is basically a class.
So you have to create them and the suggested place to create those view composer classes is inside your
up HDP namespace.
So let's go ahead and create a new folder which would be a namespace.
Call it view composers and inside it.
Let's go.
Let's create our first composer class so we can call it activity composer.
This creates us new empty BHP files so we have to start with BHP tag.
Since it's a class we have to define a namespace which would be an up HDP view composers.
So it basically has to match the folder structure so everything inside the up folder starts with up
and then we follow the folder structure.
So HDP view composers now let's define a class which has to have the same name as their file so activity
composer.
That way it can be out loaded by the peach be outer loader.
Now those view composer classes has to have one method which is public and it is called compose.
It accepts one argument of type view.
That's the namespace of this object illuminates slash of you slash view.
If you press entering this code it should be ultimately added as an import.
And now the argument name doesn't really matter.
So now inside this method we can define what we need for our particular variable name.
So what we will do is we'll copy this code from that post.
Controller
now mind that we have used some classes that we haven't imported yet to this class.
So that's cash so unique to this import and we also have to use up blog post and use up user because
we are referencing those two classes to fetch some data
now what we can do is this view argument that is being passed has our with method and the first argument
of this with method is the name of the variable that is available inside the The View template which
would be in our case most commented most active and most active last month.
So that's the name and the data data for this variable is the second argument.
So let's use most commented and we will do the same for all the two remaining variables so most active
last month
and most active now it's not everything.
We created our view composer and I have misspelled the method name.
Actually it's not composer.
It is compose so it has to be called compose.
And now we can open the up service provider.
We've registered some blade components here before and what we have to do here is we can call the view
helper function and call the composer method.
And the first argument that it expects it's for what views you would like to make some data available
from a particular composer.
So at this point we only need it for posts index and the composer we and the composer we will use here
is the activity composer.
So if you will type the class name you have a suggestion to import it.
So press enter.
This would add an import as you statement for this class and using this syntax for accessing static
members of this class.
We can get the class constant which will give us the fully qualified class name.
So we are doing this instead of typing a string with the up HDP view composers activity composer.
So it's much shorter to just use the class constant.
Now the magic happens.
We can remove this code from our index action.
We don't really have to posit to the view right now and also inside postdoc controller we don't need
this empty arrays because the data for those variables for the specific specified view in our case doubts
that only posts index view will always be available thanks to that activity composer.
So lateral refresh this page and you should see what I see on the right or some other titles of the
blog posts or and user names because you will just have different data and you can see that we haven't
passed anything from the post that controller yet.
The data is available to this particular view because we render the blog posts that are associated with
a tag using the same view as we do that on the blog post index page.
That's exactly the same view that posts index.
Also when you will go back to the list of all the blog posts is also displayed on the right and it is
also getting this data from the view composer.